+++
date = "2019-05-13T23:34:00.004-07:00"
title = "Land Use, Climate Change, and Ethics"
tags = []
draft = True
+++
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align: left;" trbidi="on">I love buildings, I enjoy building buildings, but unfortunately I was also a philosophy major, and with that major came a mandatory course on ethics, in which I was required to read Peter Singer.  To borrow a phrase from organized religion (sorry Peter), I was convicted by his arguments on utilitarianism.  A philosophy major's aside - I am allowed to agree with the main points of his arguments without being convinced of the correctness of everything he has ever written, and I don't know that I do agree with him on all points, but I do agree that the value of a human life is the same everywhere, and our obligation is to treat all people equally and work to end suffering for those suffering the most, generally those in developing countries with little access to resources.

Lately I've been trying to re-align my life and life's work with my values.  I read "Designing Your Life" and have been trying to get a more concrete handle on how far my values should take me.  I want to continue building buildings, I admit, but I need to find a way to align that with an ethical approach.  For the past four years, I've built a building (not named here so this post doesn't show up in searches for that building) that was important to its community, will bring joy to many people, is beautiful in its own way, and gave me the opportunity to learn and grow tremendously.  But I am convicted by the idea that many others would have benefited equally from doing this work, or more, and would have wanted it more than I did, and thus it is not a good match between what I want and need to do and what the world wants and needs to be done.

I am convicted by the idea that I want to look back on my career and know that the work I did left the world a better place than I found it; that the net result of my work is not environmental degradation and social injustice, but the opposite.

How to address these issues with architecture?  That part is relatively easy, I think; build green infrastructure, build dense housing in cities, use good materials, implement energy and carbon positive solutions.  But also, how to do it "effectively," meaning that I am filling a need for my skills and my work individually, not just taking the place of someone who could equally well have done the work and perhaps have done it better than I could?  This part seems harder.  It seems to lead into the non-profit sector, or government work, or something else I haven't yet fathomed.

One way to approach effectiveness would be to look for opportunities that no one else wants.  In those cases, I am filling a need that would not be filled otherwise.  One way this could work is assisting non-profits for very low fees or pro bono (think community design groups).  Another would be to tackle projects that are extremely difficult and intractable, and add my shoulder to the shoulders of all the others who are pushing in the direction of a solution, similar to how scientific research across many universities into the same problem generates more and better solutions.  Maybe this could look like working for an architecture firm that works on climate change-related infrastructure and planning (think Atelier Ten?), or even on speculative proposals that have the possibility of influencing or changing policy in a meaningful way (think Oystertecture).

Intractable problems - land use and climate change.  Do I need to work out of the country, if poverty is worst elsewhere?  Can I live with the knowledge that my work will help only those who already have the most?  What if my work also contributes to setting new standards for what architecture can and should do around the world?

I hope to take the next several months as an extended sabbatical to try to answer these questions.</div>
