+++
date = "2015-08-19T23:58:00.001-07:00"
title = "Miracles of Modern Medicine"
tags = ['doctors', 'surgery', 'medicine', 'glaucoma']
+++
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align: left;" trbidi="on">I can see, and it's a miracle (of modern medicine).

I'd like to share my story in order to give well-deserved thanks to Dr. Daniel Pope and his team at the Bradenton Eye Depot in Bradenton, Florida.

[Photoshop a before and after picture]

It was 1993, I was five years old, and in a freak accident, I lost the lens in my left eye.  I'll spare you the details, but the upshot is, never play darts without wearing eye protection.  At the hospital, the eye surgeon (ophthalmologist) was able to remove the shattered lens and stitch up my eye.  The accident had damaged my cornea, broken my lens, and scarred my retina, but fortunately, had not damaged the optic nerve.  This meant I could still see and my eye could mostly recover.  For the following months, I had to wear an eye patch, which as you can imagine looked great when I was the flower girl in my aunt's wedding that year.  Sadly I was too young to appreciate the vast world of pirate-related humor available to me.  I do hazily remember when I first tried to open my eye, that the world seemed excessively bright through the patch.  Eventually, I stopped wearing the patch, the doctor took out the stitches in my eye, and things sort of went back to normal.

As normal as things can be, that is, when you're a five-year-old who wears contacts.  I started with glasses (prescription for the left lens only, clear glass in the right lens), but then the doctors realized I would do better with a contact lens.  Soft lenses irritated me and I couldn't sleep with them in as required, so we went to a hard (gas permeable) lens.  I couldn't put it in or take it out by myself, so you can imagine the agony when I would get dust in my eye and couldn't do much about it.  My mom had to come to school to get the lens out, or one of the school nurses had to intervene.  My teachers, naturally, tried to shield me from any potential dust-related activities, but it just made me feel isolated when I had to sit by myself during "dangerous" activities like using yarn.

This lasted until second grade, when, finally, I figured out how to look in the mirror and stick the little plastic suction cup in my eye by myself to remove the lens.  It took me a bit longer to figure out how to put it back in, but eventually I got that too.

Fast forward a few years, when my biological nearsightedness caught up with me, and I was wearing contacts in both eyes.  During a routine check-up, which I had every four to six months, the doctors discovered I had developed glaucoma (high pressure) in my injured eye.  Thanks to their consistent care, the glaucoma was caught early, before any real loss of vision (glaucoma causes loss of  peripheral vision first, then it slowly destroys the rest of the visual field), and I've been taking daily drops ever since.  Glaucoma due to eye trauma is much less common than the typical age-related disease, but it's just as treatable, and thankfully has not required surgery (so far).  I will continue going to the eye doctor every four to six months, likely for the rest of my life, to monitor the pressure in my eye.

Fast forward again, I'm in college, my eyes have stopped growing and changing shape, and suddenly I have a choice.  I can keep going the way things are, wearing a thick contact in my left eye, business as usual.  Or I can get surgery and implant a new lens in my left eye.  Up to this point I've been "aphakic," meaning without a lens, but I could become "pseudophakic," with an artificial one.  Although I'll never be able to focus my left eye like I can my right, since all those years of being aphakic means I no longer have muscles to control the lens, I could have a lens implanted that permanently gives me middle-distance vision.  Together with a new (thinner) contact lens, my vision could be significantly improved.  There are risks, of course, but I'm a good candidate, and this is a standard surgery (same as cataract surgery) that my doctor performs almost every day.  I decide that we should go for it, as soon as I finish graduate school, so that I have plenty of time to heal without any deadlines to meet.

It's 2013, and the nurses are joking that I'm the "pediatric" patient at the outpatient eye surgery center.  They see older patients all day long for cataract surgery, and I'm getting essentially the same thing, minus the cataract; the job's been half done, since they took out my lens in 1993.  Now we're just finishing the procedure by putting a new lens back.  As I lie in bed after the surgery, once I can open my eye again, I can see the ceiling fan in some detail.  It's crazy - with my nearsighted right eye, I couldn't see it in any detail, and I realize that my damaged left eye is now, in some sense, better than my right.  Up close, there's no question that my right eye is better, but further away, without corrective lenses, my left eye is sharper.  It's a weird feeling.

Feel free to make jokes about an aspiring architect with vision problems.  If Beethoven could write symphonies while deaf, surely I can still succeed in a visual field.  In fact, I can think of myself as a cyborg, with my artificial lens.  I carry a card in my wallet that describes the lens implant in case I'm in an accident or need to prove my cyborg status.

I'm fairly certain that if I lived not that long ago, I would have lost an eye.  There were so many things that could have gone wrong: I could have developed lazy eye, through lack of adequate correction, with my brain slowly giving up on my damaged eye; I could have lost my vision to unchecked glaucoma; I could simply have lost the whole eye through less skilled surgery, infection, or lack of proper care.  Instead, my new doctor here in California, a glaucoma specialist, tells me that the surgery was "perfect" and everything looks great.  I now feel normal, and I rarely have to think about my injury and what I can or can't do as a result of it.  I did have to take the California road test because I indicated on my application that I have glaucoma, and because at the time, I did not yet have a new left contact lens and failed the eye test.  (California tests each eye independently, unlike every other state I've ever lived in.)  The road test examiner helpfully reminded me that I should be sure to get regular check-ups because glaucoma is a serious disease.  Gee, thanks, I would never have known that without you.  On retaking the eye test, with my new contact, I passed.  (By that time I had already passed the road test and had a temporary license.)  This all caused me much grief, but thanks to my great doctors, I was able to get a standard California license, something I would not have been able to get before 2013 - I would have had to get a two-year license only, and potentially re-take the road test every two years.  Wouldn't that have been lovely.

All this is to say that while I can't be an astronaut, fighter pilot, or marksman (though I can be this kind of Marksman), I can have a pretty normal life, and I am incredibly grateful to Dr. Pope and his team for taking care of me for over 20 years, resulting in the improved vision I have today.  Thanks are also due to my parents, of coures, for taking me to untold numbers of eye doctor appointments, which, however brief and convenient, were never really fun.  But they were totally necessary.  And with the benefit of hindsight (and regular sight), I am grateful that I went to all those appointments.

All twenty years of them.

Thanks, Dr. Pope and Bradenton Eye Depot.  To borrow a phrase, I once was pretty much blind in my left eye, and now I see.  Let's keep it that way.</div>
